## Requests and Response

#### Creating a Web Server
An HTTP transaction always involves a client and a server. You're using an HTTP client right now — your web browser. Your browser sends HTTP requests to web servers, and servers send responses back to your browser. Displaying a simple web page can involve dozens of requests — for the HTML page itself, for images or other media, and for additional data that the page needs.

#### Running your first web server
The Python http.server module can run a built-in web server on your computer. It's not a web app you'd publish to the world; it's a demonstration of Python's HTTP abilities.

#### Parts of a URI
A web address is also called a URI for Uniform Resource Identifier. You've seen plenty of these before. From a web user's view, a URI is a piece of text that you put into your web browser that tells it what page to go to. From a web developer's view, it's a little bit more complicated.

Here is an example of a URI: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fish

This URI has three visible parts, separated by a little bit of punctuation:

- https is the scheme;
- en.wikipedia.org is the hostname;
- and /wiki/Fish is the path.

What's a port number, anyway? To get into that, we need to talk about how the Internet works. All of the network traffic that computers send and receive — everything from web requests, to login sessions, to file sharing — is split up into messages called packets. Each packet has the IP addresses of the computer that sent it, and the computer that receives it. And (with the exception of some low-level packets, such as ping) it also has the port number for the sender and recipient. IP addresses distinguish computers; port numbers distinguish programs on those computers.

#### Status line

The numbers 200 and 301 here are HTTP status codes. There are dozens of different status codes. The first digit of the status code indicates the general success of the request. As a shorthand, web developers describe all of the codes starting with 2 as "2xx" codes, for instance — the x's mean "any digit".

- 1xx — Informational. The request is in progress or there's another step to take.
- 2xx — Success! The request succeeded. The server is sending the data the client asked for.
- 3xx — Redirection. The server is telling the client a different URI it should redirect to. The headers will usually contain a Location header with the updated URI. Different codes tell the client whether a redirect is permanent or temporary.
- 4xx — Client error. The server didn't understand the client's request, or can't or won't fill it. Different codes tell the client whether it was a bad URI, a permissions problem, or another sort of error.
- 5xx — Server error. Something went wrong on the server side.

## Additional

https://www.udacity.com/course/networking-for-web-developers--ud256


